About the Mantras I must tell you that it’s a big science
and one should know how to take Mantra, what time, where.
You cannot give a general Mantra to everyone, like a general
medicine.
The Mantra is according to the way Kundalini is moving.
Say the Kundalini has stopped here, then
you have to name, take the name of Christ
or you have to say the Mantra of “Lord’s Prayer”.
Now if it stops in the stomach,
you have to take the name of Vishnu.
If it stops around the Void then you have to take the
name of these primordial Masters like Mohammed or
like other People like Moses, Abraham.
If it stops here you have to take the name of Shri Krishna
or you have to say “Allah hu Akbar”
with these fingers in your ears
and that’s how you can cure your throat-troubles.
These are all Mantras, but not like
everybody stupidly saying “Allah hu Akbar”
or everybody saying some Mantra
which has no relation to that person.
And before realization you have
no authority to take any Mantras.
Like if I have to meet – supposing – the
Prime-Minister then I have to go through proper channel,
there is a protocol, I cannot just go and shout
his Names somewhere, ah they will arrest Me.
Now God is the Prime-Minister of all the Prime-Ministers,
He is the highest of all, so taking
His name is not such a simple thing,
that anybody can take His name,
just call Him as if He is your servant.
And the way we pray sometimes, you see:
look after my father, look after my mother,
look after my children, look after everyone,
that’s not the way to address God.
First you have to get your realization and enter
into the Kingdom of God, then He looks after you.
Then He looks after you fully, in every way.
You see in Sahaja Yoga you are not given any mantra or anything.
There is no, nothing like giving you into a big course.
Like teaching you one after another any mantra or anything.
It's not like this.
What you have to know, where the Kundalini is, how it is moving?
Where it is ? What is the Chakra catching?
and what is the mantra for that?
It doesn’t take anything, hardly takes about a week.
For you to understand the whole thing.
But gradually as you start moving it, you become proficient.
Then you can know, how to do it for yourself and for others.
There is not much of a thing like a child,
when he comes up a little age,
it starts picking up language.
Because he has built in capacity,
to create sound. And he does it.
In the same way, once you get it,
when you get the cool breeze in your hand,
you learn it by using it.
You understand it, yourself.
You become yourself quite proficient
And you will be amazed, how fast you learn this.
You don't have to learn it just like a science book or anything.
Just start learning with:
"This is the chakra, it is catching"
Because now, for example this chakra is catching.
Right side, now there is a mantra
for this is of Shri Krishna.
Say this chakra is catching,
Here, then this the mantra for Jesus Christ.
Like that you must know, the mantras and the chakras.
But the chakras you just know as a absolutely a knowledge.
Which is built in your nerves.
Just feel it!
[Yogi] … about mantras…
Mantras, yes. Now, we have got different centers,
and all these centers have got different deities.
As I told you, Lord Jesus Christ is here.,
Moses is here, Krishna is here. We have a chart of that.
We have books which will be given to you.
So the mantras are according to the chakra that is in problem.
Supposing your Nabhi chakra is not alright. Alright?
And if you start saying the mantra of this one is no use.
So you must know what center is catching, from your fingers.
Now you can make out here, in this chart if you see
on this side, we have got written the numbers according to the centers.
On this side, if you see it clearly?
Now these are the numbers of the centers, alright?
So then, and also here it is written in this chart,
what are the different deities.
Now, all these deities should be first understood,
where are they, and when you have to say the mantras,
what you have to do is coil it into a proper Sahaja Yoga mantra
– so have you given that?
[Yogi] It’s not in these books..
But they will tell you.
The pattern has to be like this, which says,
whatever is the thing is, is woven into the complete
- I mean, you are to be recommended, isn’t it?
Somebody has to say.
So you have to say that
I am the one who has given you this knowledge.
So just you have to use that particular thing
which they will give you, the pattern, which is very simple.
And you have to use these names of these deities,
different deities
according, and gradually you’ll be amazed it will work out.
But when you come here, they will
tell you, it’s very simple, it’s very simple.
Now we have got mantras for different chakras.
Every chakra has got a mantra which you
know. If you do not know, you should find out.
Now, if one chakra is catching,
then you work on that chakra only
and develop your mantra on that.
For example, supposing you have
to say something for your heart:
then, first of all, you must ask for forgiveness from God.
That means your attention has not been
so much as it should have been on the Spirit.
Or, if you have done any mistakes, ask for forgiveness,
you ask for forgiveness.
Now, you ask for forgiveness from your heart.
Even doing with hand can be artificial, you understand that?
It could be just ritualistic – but from your heart.
Whatever you have to say, you say it from your heart.
Ask for forgiveness from your heart, not [to] think about it.
You see, this is the trouble. If I say something then you start thinking about it,
and then you said then, “Now, I have to
take out my attention from the centre,”
and then you start taking out your attention. You cannot.
With your brain, you cannot take out your attention from
anywhere.
It’s only through your hands, or movement of your hands,
or by saying mantras you bring in.
Do you understand that point? Absolutely clear-cut.
Many people think that if they pay attention
to something and pull their attention – you cannot.
But what you can do is to, when you are saying the mantra,
put your attention, without
thought, to that particular chakra.
So you master that chakra ultimately.
The one which is a weakness can become your mastery.
But if you think, then you are catching again the heart much more.
Those who think that by saying mantras morning till evening
they are going to achieve much, they are sadly mistaken; it's all mechanical then.
So many people have a habit of all the time shouting mantras. It's not habit.
Mantras should open your chakras, otherwise, it has no meaning.
They should be used properly at key points,
with great respect, with a great understanding, and then allow them
to open your chakras, by which you take the water in
of that great thing known as Kundalini.
The greatest blessing will come to you through Her love.
But not the way, people are just taking there should be no transformation.
If you are identified with your ego and think oh, you are all right,
you are sadly mistaken.
You have to transform completely within yourself.
So apart from this technique, to have the best effect of the blessings
or the best flow of the Grace within us,
we say mantras.
The sound of mantras,
the sound, the sound echoes
into the being of God.
And they are re-echoed on our chakras,
and then the chakras start opening more.
So the flow of the Grace of God is received.
But only a realized soul should chant a mantra.
Because without connection, how will it reach God?
It is a vicious circle.
Now one may say that "Mother, you cannot get realization
unless and until you get the Grace of God.
And the chakras won't open by a person
who is not a realized soul.
And without opening the chakras you cannot get realization."
That's how the play of the Mother comes in,
and of all the saints, like you.
I would say the Sahaja yogis have to break this vicious circle.
You have to raise the kundalini yourself.
Once you raise the kundalini,
the kundalini opens the chakras a little bit,
because you have given your vibrations to the chakras.
So once she knows there is a Sahaja yogi standing
behind the seeker, she rises.
She knows you are her brothers and sisters,
and that you belong to the same family as she does.
She knows the land where she has to grow, you see,
so she can feel that, and then she rises in her dignity.
That's how she breaks this vicious circle.